# 1. Introduction

#### The problem
Traditional client-server authentication model:

* client requests protected resource on server by authenticating with
  server using resource owner's credentials
* third-party app needs resource owner's credentials to access those
  protected resources

Problems & limitations:

* sharing of credentials w/ third parties
* resource servers have to support authentication
* owner can't restrict duration or access to subset of resources 
* owner can't revoke access to individual third party w/o revoking
  access to all
* credentials leak in any third party leaves unprotected all data
  accessible through those credentials

#### OAuth's solution
Authorisation layer to separate client from resource owner:

1. resource owner gives authorisation server approval to grant client
   some kind of access on some protected resources (scope) 
2. client obtains access token w/ scope, lifetime, and other access
   attributes from authorisation server; resource owner's credentials
   remain private
3. client uses access token to access protected resources on resource
   server

**Example**. An end user (resource owner) grants a printing service (client)
access to her protected photos stored at a photo-sharing service (resource
server), without sharing username & password with the printing service.
Instead, she authenticates directly with an authorisation server trusted
by the photo-sharing service, which issues the printing service
delegation-specific credentials (access token).

#### Backward compatibility
OAuth 2 is designed to work w/ HTTP and isn't backward compatible w/
OAuth 1.


### 1.1. Roles

* **Resource owner**. Grants access to protected resource. Referred to
  as end user if it's a person.
* **Resource server**. Hosts protected resources and can handle requests
  using access tokens.
* **Client**. App authorised by resource owner to access protected resources
  on their behalf.
* **Authorisation server**. Issues access tokens to the client after
  authenticating the resource owner and obtaining authorisation.


### 1.2. Protocol Flow

Fig 1 shows abstract flow and interaction among the four roles:

1. Client requests authorisation from resource owner, either directly
   or using authorisation server as intermediary, and gets authorisation
   grant.
2. Client authenticates with authorisation server and exchanges authorisation
   grant for access token.
3. Client requests protected resource from resource server by presenting
   access token.
4. Resource server validates access token and, if valid, serves request.

Preferred method for client to obtain authorisation grant is to use
authorisation server as intermediary---see Fig 3 in Section 4.1.


### 1.3. Authorisation Grant

**Authorisation grant**. Credential representing resource owner's
authorisation (to access its protected resources) used by client to
obtain access token.

#### 1.3.1. Authorisation Code
Grant obtained by using authorisation server as intermediary between
client and resource owner.

Flow:

1. Client directs resource owner to authorisation server.
2. Authorisation server authenticates resource owner and obtains
   authorisation.
3. Authorisation server directs resource owner back to client with
   authorisation code.

Benefits:

* Resource owner's credentials never shared with client.
* Client gets authenticated.
* Access token transmitted directly to client.

#### 1.3.2. Implicit
No intermediate credentials (e.g. authorisation code) issued, grant is
implicit.

Flow: simplified authorisation code flow where client is issued access
token directly.

Benefits:

* Client responsiveness and efficiency---e.g. JavaScript client app.

Drawbacks:

* Authorisation server doesn't authenticate client.
* Access token may be exposed to resource owner or other apps with access
  to resource owner's user-agent.
* Other security implications detailed in sections 10.3 and 10.16.

#### 1.3.3. Resource Owner Password Credentials
Grant made up by resource owner's username & password.

Flow: client uses resource owner's credentials as authorisation grant
to get access token.

Use case: client runs on resource owner's device and no other authorisation
grant types are available.

Benefits:

* Client doesn't have to store credentials for later use; it can
use them just once to get long-lived access/refresh tokens.

Drawbacks:

* Credentials exposed to client.
* Can only be used when resource owner can trust client.

#### 1.3.4. Client Credentials
Grant made up by client's own credentials.

Flow: client uses own credentials as authorisation grant to get access
token.

Use cases:

* Client wants to access resources under its control, i.e. client is
  resource owner.
* Client authorisation to access resources was previously arranged with
  authorisation server.


### 1.4. Access Token

**Access token**. Credentials representing an authorisation the resource
owner grants to the client for a limited time to access resources within
a given scope.

Benefits:

* Can issue access tokens more restrictive than authorisation grant
  used to obtain them.
* Resource server doesn't have to support authentication methods,
  only needs to understand access tokens.

Beyond this spec's scope: access token attributes and methods used to
access protected resources. But see RFC6750 (Bearer Token).


### 1.5. Refresh Token

**Refresh token**. Credentials used to obtain access tokens. Like the
access token, it represents a resource owner's authorisation but it can
only be used with the authorisation server to get a new access token
when the current one becomes invalid or expires, or to get additional
access tokens with identical or narrower scope.

Fig 2 show the flow for refreshing an expired access token.


