2. Client Registration
======================

* Authorisation server has to trust client.
* Trust established through registration process not covered by spec.

But the spec requires that at the end of the process the authorisation
server know:

* client type---see Section 2.1
* client redirection URIs---see Section 3.1.2


### 2.1. Client Types

Two possible client types:

* **Confidential**. Client can keep its credentials secret or is able
  to authenticate securely by other means. Typically: client runs on
  secure server with restricted access to credentials.
* **Public**. Client isn't able to keep its credentials secret and
  can't authenticate securely by any other means. Typically: client
  runs on resource owner's device---e.g. mobile or browser-based app.

Notes:

1. *Confidential vs public*. Client type based on the authorisation server's
   definition of secure authentication and its acceptable exposure levels
   of client credentials.
2. *Client may be a whole distributed system**. Each component may have
   different client type and security context---e.g. confidential server
   web app and public JavaScript front end. Each component may be registered
   as a separate client.


### 2.2. Client Identifier

**Client Identifier**. A string generated by the authorisation server
(and unique to server) to represent registration information provided
by the client.

The client identifier

* is **not** a secret,
* is exposed to the resource owner,
* must **not** be used alone for client authentication.


### 2.3. Client Authentication

* Authorisation server and confidential client agree on authentication
  method, typically using client credentials---e.g. password,
  public/private key pair.
* Authorisation server must not rely on public client authentication
  for the purpose of identifying the client.
* Client must not use more than one authentication method in each
  request.

#### 2.3.1. Client Password
Authentication method where client is given a password and sends
both client identifier and password to the server to authenticate.

This can be done either:

* using the HTTP Basic authentication scheme (preferred), or
* encoding credentials in the request body (not recommended)
  using `client_id` & `client_secret` parameters.

Note:

* parameters must not be included in the request URI.

#### 2.3.2. Other Authentication Methods
Authorisation server

* can use any other suitable HTTP authentication scheme,
* but in that case, it must define mapping: client identifier ~~> 
  authentication scheme


### 2.4. Unregistered Clients

Allowed but beyond spec scope.

